README.md, before:

# videojs-ga

LOOKING FOR A MAINTAINER: [I am looking for a maintainer for this project](https://github.com/mickey/videojs-ga/issues/30)

Google Analytics plugin for video.js

## Getting Started
Download [videojs](http://www.videojs.com/) and [videojs.ga](https://github.com/mickey/videojs-ga)

In your web page:
```html
<video id="video" src="movie.mp4" controls></video>
<script src="video.js"></script>
<script src="dist/videojs.ga.min.js"></script>
<script>
videojs('video', {}, function() {
  this.ga(); // "load the plugin, by defaults tracks everything!!"
});
</script>
```

_Please note that the Google Analytics script must be loaded before the ga plugin_

## Options

You can provide options to the plugin either by passing them in the javascript or in the html.

```javascript
player.ga({
  'eventsToTrack': ['fullscreen', 'resize'],
  'debug': true
});
```

```html
<video id="video" src="movie.mp4" controls data-setup='{"ga": {"eventsToTrack": ["error"]}}'></video>
```

The plugin will take in priority options provided in the javascript, followed by the ones provided in html and finally the defaults.

The following options are supported:

####eventCategory

This is the ```eventCategory``` sent to GA. If you don't know what it is please check [GA's doc](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/events)
**default:** ```'Video'```

####eventLabel

This is the ```eventLabel``` sent to GA. If you don't know what it is please check [GA's doc](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/events)
If not set, label will be generated automatically, unless ```autoLabel``` option is set to false.

####autoLabel

If set to true, ```eventLabel``` will be generated automatically using basename of the video path.
E.g. if the path is ```http://s3.amazonaws.com/pouet.mp4``` the label would be ```pouet```
**default:** ```true```

####eventsToTrack

The events you want to track. Most of this events are videojs events. Some of them might reflects my needs.
I'm open to add some more if you care to provide a good use case or a pull request.
**default:** every events
  ```[ 'loaded', 'percentsPlayed', 'secondsPlayed', 'start', 'end', 'seek', 'play', 'pause', 'resize', 'volumeChange', 'error', 'fullscreen']```

Most of the events are selft explanatory, here's the ones that may need more details:

- ```percentsPlayed```: will send an event every X percents. X being defined by the option ```percentsPlayedInterval```.

####percentsPlayedInterval

This option goes with the ```percentsPlayed``` event. Every ```percentsPlayedInterval``` percents an event will be sent to GA.
**default:** 10

####secondsPlayedInterval

This option goes with the ```secondsPlayed``` event. Every ```secondsPlayedInterval``` seconds of the actual playback an event will be sent to GA.
**default:** 60

####secondsPlayedMoments

This option goes with the ```secondsPlayed``` event. After each value of ```secondsPlayedMoments``` seconds of the actual playback an event will be sent to GA.
**default:** ```[]```

####trackFiniteSeconds

If set to true and at least one of ```secondsPlayedInterval```, ```secondsPlayedMoments``` options is set, ```seconds played``` events will be triggered.

####trackReplaySeconds
If set to true, ```start``` and ```secondsPlayed``` events will be emitted even after video has ended and then has been started again.
**default:** ```false```

####sendGaEventDirectly
If set to true, plugin will send events to GA directly. Otherwise you need to listen to ```gaEvent``` on the player instance and then send events to GA manually, e.g.
```
player.on('gaEvent', function(e, gaEvent) {
  ga('send', gaEvent);
});
```
**default:** ```false```

####debug

If set to false, console logs will be ommited
**default:** ```false```

#### ga.js and analytics.js

This plugin supports the ga.js and the newer analytics.js Google Analytics libraries. It autodetects the library you use.

## See information in google
To view the data on Google, access your account in analytics, in left panel click in Behavior > Events > Top Events.

## TODO

- [x] track the engine used (html5/flash) along with the source (ogg, mp4, ...)
- [ ] track the time to download the video

Commit message:

add percentsPlayedMoments option; refactor timeupdate handler; use not rounded values for accurate calculation of percent values

README.md, after:

# videojs-ga

LOOKING FOR A MAINTAINER: [I am looking for a maintainer for this project](https://github.com/mickey/videojs-ga/issues/30)

Google Analytics plugin for video.js

## Getting Started
Download [videojs](http://www.videojs.com/) and [videojs.ga](https://github.com/mickey/videojs-ga)

In your web page:
```html
<video id="video" src="movie.mp4" controls></video>
<script src="video.js"></script>
<script src="dist/videojs.ga.min.js"></script>
<script>
videojs('video', {}, function() {
  this.ga(); // "load the plugin, by defaults tracks everything!!"
});
</script>
```

_Please note that the Google Analytics script must be loaded before the ga plugin_

## Options

You can provide options to the plugin either by passing them in the javascript or in the html.

```javascript
player.ga({
  'eventsToTrack': ['fullscreen', 'resize'],
  'debug': true
});
```

```html
<video id="video" src="movie.mp4" controls data-setup='{"ga": {"eventsToTrack": ["error"]}}'></video>
```

The plugin will take in priority options provided in the javascript, followed by the ones provided in html and finally the defaults.

The following options are supported:

####eventCategory

This is the ```eventCategory``` sent to GA. If you don't know what it is please check [GA's doc](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/events)
**default:** ```'Video'```

####eventLabel

This is the ```eventLabel``` sent to GA. If you don't know what it is please check [GA's doc](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/events)
If not set, label will be generated automatically, unless ```autoLabel``` option is set to false.

####autoLabel

If set to true, ```eventLabel``` will be generated automatically using basename of the video path.
E.g. if the path is ```http://s3.amazonaws.com/pouet.mp4``` the label would be ```pouet```
**default:** ```true```

####eventsToTrack

The events you want to track. Most of this events are videojs events. Some of them might reflects my needs.
I'm open to add some more if you care to provide a good use case or a pull request.
**default:** every events
  ```[ 'loaded', 'percentsPlayed', 'secondsPlayed', 'start', 'end', 'seek', 'play', 'pause', 'resize', 'volumeChange', 'error', 'fullscreen']```

Most of the events are selft explanatory, here's the ones that may need more details:

- ```percentsPlayed```: will send an event every X percents. X being defined by the option ```percentsPlayedInterval```.

####percentsPlayedInterval

This option goes with the ```percentsPlayed``` event. Every ```percentsPlayedInterval``` percents an event will be sent to GA.
Set this options to `false` if you want to use `percentsPlayedMoments` option and don't want to track every 10 percent of playback.
**default:** 10

####percentsPlayedMoments

This option goes with the ```percentsPlayed``` event. After each value of ```percentsPlayedMoments``` percents of the actual playback an event will be sent.
**default:** ```[]```

####secondsPlayedInterval

This option goes with the ```secondsPlayed``` event. Every ```secondsPlayedInterval``` seconds of the actual playback an event will be sent to GA.
**default:** 60

####secondsPlayedMoments

This option goes with the ```secondsPlayed``` event. After each value of ```secondsPlayedMoments``` seconds of the actual playback an event will be sent to GA.
**default:** ```[]```

####trackFiniteSeconds

If set to true and at least one of ```secondsPlayedInterval```, ```secondsPlayedMoments``` options is set, ```seconds played``` events will be triggered.

####trackReplaySeconds
If set to true, ```start``` and ```secondsPlayed``` events will be emitted even after video has ended and then has been started again.
**default:** ```false```

####sendGaEventDirectly
If set to true, plugin will send events to GA directly. Otherwise you need to listen to ```gaEvent``` on the player instance and then send events to GA manually, e.g.
```
player.on('gaEvent', function(e, gaEvent) {
  ga('send', gaEvent);
});
```
**default:** ```false```

####debug

If set to false, console logs will be ommited
**default:** ```false```

#### ga.js and analytics.js

This plugin supports the ga.js and the newer analytics.js Google Analytics libraries. It autodetects the library you use.

## See information in google
To view the data on Google, access your account in analytics, in left panel click in Behavior > Events > Top Events.

## TODO

- [x] track the engine used (html5/flash) along with the source (ogg, mp4, ...)
- [ ] track the time to download the video
